.TH TMUXRS 1 "June 2024" "tmuxrs 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
tmuxrs \- A modern tmux session manager with centralized configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tmuxrs
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fICOMMAND\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tmuxrs
is a modern, Rust-based tmux session manager with centralized configuration and directory-aware execution.
It serves as a drop-in replacement for tmuxinator, providing the same functionality with improved performance
and maintaining full compatibility with existing tmuxinator configurations.
.PP
All session configurations are stored in
.IR ~/.config/tmuxrs/
as YAML files. When run without arguments in a project directory, tmuxrs automatically detects
and loads the appropriate configuration based on the directory's Git repository name.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B start \fR[\fINAME\fR]
Start a tmux session. If no NAME is provided, tmuxrs will attempt to detect the appropriate
session based on the current directory's Git repository name.
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-no\-attach
Start the session in detached mode without attaching to it
.TP
.B \-\-append
Add windows to an existing session instead of creating a new one
.RE
.TP
.B stop \fINAME\fR
Stop (kill) a running tmux session
.TP
.B list
List all available session configurations found in ~/.config/tmuxrs/
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h\fR, \fB\-\-help
Print help information
.TP
.B \-V\fR, \fB\-\-version
Print version information
.SH CONFIGURATION
tmuxrs uses YAML configuration files stored in
.IR ~/.config/tmuxrs/ .
Each file defines one session, with the filename (minus extension) serving as the session identifier.
.PP
Configuration files support the following structure:
.PP
.RS
.nf
name: myproject
root: ~/code/myproject
windows:
  - editor:
      layout: main-vertical
      panes:
        - vim
        - rails server
  - monitoring:
      layout: tiled
      panes:
        - htop
        - tail -f log/development.log
.fi
.RE
.PP
For simple windows without panes, use:
.PP
.RS
.nf
windows:
  - editor: vim
  - server: rails server
.fi
.RE
.SH LAYOUTS
The following tmux layouts are supported:
.TP
.B main-vertical
Main pane on the left, others stacked vertically on the right
.TP
.B main-horizontal
Main pane on top, others stacked horizontally below
.TP
.B tiled
All panes arranged in a grid
.TP
.B even-horizontal
All panes equal width
.TP
.B even-vertical
All panes equal height
.SH CONFIGURATION DISCOVERY
tmuxrs uses the following logic to find configurations:
.PP
1. Check for .tmuxinator.yml in the current directory (compatibility mode)
.br
2. Use the Git repository name to find ~/.config/tmuxrs/<repo-name>.yml
.br
3. If explicitly named, use ~/.config/tmuxrs/<name>.yml
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Start a session using directory detection:
.B tmuxrs start
.TP
Start a specific session:
.B tmuxrs start myproject
.TP
Start a session without attaching:
.B tmuxrs start myproject --no-attach
.TP
List available sessions:
.B tmuxrs list
.TP
Stop a session:
.B tmuxrs stop myproject
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/tmuxrs/*.yml
User session configuration files
.TP
.I .tmuxinator.yml
Local project configuration (tmuxinator compatibility)
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B TMUX
Set by tmux when inside a tmux session. tmuxrs uses this to detect if it should
create a new session or attach to an existing one.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 1
General error (configuration not found, tmux error, etc.)
.SH COMPATIBILITY
tmuxrs is designed as a drop-in replacement for tmuxinator. Existing tmuxinator
configuration files can be used without modification.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tmux (1)
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at https://github.com/beijaflor/tmuxrs/issues
.SH AUTHOR
Written by beijaflor
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2024 beijaflor. License: MIT OR Apache-2.0
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.